[Add a41_partI.png]
[Add a41_partII.png]


PART A:

    ● What difference does choosing a specific day to plot the data for versus
    calculating the yearly average have on our graphs (i.e., in terms of the R 2
    values and the fit of the resulting curves)? Interpret the results.

    Using average yearly temperature appears to produce a better fit than using  
    the temperature on January 10th as the y-value. The R^2 of plot two is higher than plot one, 
    proving a better fit. It appears that averaging out the temperatures minimizes random daily
    fluctuations and as a result produces a better model.

    ● Why do you think these graphs are so noisy? Which one is more noisy?

    I believe the graphs are noisy because of the underlying nature of temperatures. Temperatures
    are naturally stochastic, hence the noise. The January 10th graph is more noisy than the average temperature graph as averaging
    yearly temperature serves to minimize random fluctuations. The temperature on January 10th doesn't 
    represent the temperature throughout the year.

    ● How do these graphs support or contradict the claim that global warming is
    leading to an increase in temperature? The slope and the standard
    error-to-slope ratio could be helpful in thinking about this.

    In both the average graph and January 10th graph there is a consistent increase in 
    yearly temperature between 1961 and 2009 measured by the graphs different methods.
    The slope in both graphs is positive showing the temperature increase as the years increase. 
    However the January 10th graph has an SE/Slope ratio greater than .5, which tells us that 
    the trend reported could be due entirely to chance. The SE/Slope ratio for the average graph 
    is lower than .5 showing  statistically significant evidence for global warming. 

[Add partb_I.png]



PART B:
    ● How does this graph compare to the graphs from part A (i.e., in terms of
    the R 2 values, the fit of the resulting curves, and whether the graph
    supports/contradicts our claim about global warming)? Interpret the
    results.

    The newer graph has much lower SE/SLOPE and higher R^2 value which means we can draw stronger conclusions 
    from this graph and that the model explains a large portion of the variance. 
    The graph shows a clear increase in average temperature as the years increase.
    The graph supports our claims about global warming.

    ● Why do you think this is the case?

    The part B graph is produced by averaging out the temperatures across 21 cities. 
    This reduces local noise and grants more predicitive power than sampling the temperature of one city. 

    ● How would we expect the results to differ if we used 3 different cities?
    What about 100 different cities?

    Seeing as using 21 cities allowed us to reduce local noise, using 3 cities instead would lessen that effect.
    The 3 cities model would be less predicitive, having a higher SE/Slope and lower R^2 value, as less
    noise is filtered out. Conversely, a 100 cities model would have even more random noise filtered out,
    leading to a better and more predicitive model.

    ● How would the results have changed if all 21 cities were in the same region
    of the United States (for ex., New England)?
    
    If all 21 cities were in the same region, the resulting model would be hyper sensitive to 
    random temperature fluctuations in that particular region resulting in worse predicitive capacity
    for the rest of the United States.

[Add partC_figure.png]


PART C:

    ● How does this graph compare to the graphs from part A and B ( i.e., in
    terms of the R 2 values, the fit of the resulting curves, and whether the
    graph supports/contradicts our claim about global warming)? Interpret the
    results.

    The moving averages graph has an even higher R^2 value than any of the previous graphs,
    suggesting that it's fit explains more of the variance compared to the previous plots. 
    It also has a much smaller SE/Slope value proving our fit's slope is statistically significant.
    This plot shows temperature increases as the years increase, supporting our claim about global warming.
    
    ● Why do you think this is the case?

    Our model uses moving averages of length 5 to average out temperature fluctuations sampled from 21 cities. 
    This removes noise and thus helps us better find the underlying trend. This technique removes 
    the most noise compared to sampling 21 cities (without moving averages) or sampling one. 


PART D:
    


    PART I
    
    Add [part_d_degree_one.png, part_d_degree_twenty.png, part_d_degree_two.png]

    ● How do these models compare to each other?

    The moving average graph of degree one as a straight line fit with an R^2 of .92. 
    The moving average graph of degree two has a slighlty curvier line fit and an R^2 of .94.
    The moving average graph of degree twenty has a extremely curvy line fit and an R^2 of .97.


    ● Which one has the best R2 ? Why?

    The moving average graph with degree 1 has the lowest R^2 value (.92), suggesting that it's fit explains 
    the least of the of the variance compared to the subsequent plots. As the degree increases to 2 and and 20 the R^2
    increases to .94 and .97 respectively. Proving that if we give the line of fit more parameters 
    the model will have more flexibility to fit closely to the patterns of the data.

    ● Which model best fits the data? Why?

    The model with degree 20 best fits the training data used to train the models. However, it's high R^2
    is suspicious and hints that the model might've overfit to the data. 
    We can't conclude which model generalizes best without seeing their performance on new data.
   


    Part 2:

    Add [part_D_II_I.png, part_D_II_II.png, part_D_II_III.png]
   
    ● How did the different models perform? How did their RMSEs compare?

    The models with degree 1 performed the best with an RMSE of .08. The models with a degree of 2
    performed second best with an RMSE of .211. The models with degree 20 performed the worst
    with an RMSE of 1.49.

    ● Which model performed the best? Which model performed the worst? Are
    they the same as those in part D.2.I? Why?

    The model with degree 1 performed the best in D.2.II whilst the model with degreee 20 performed 
    the best on D.2.I. This is a clear case of overfitting, where our more complex and flexible models 
    fail to generalize to new data. The models that best fit the training data do not necessarily always
    perform the best on the test data.



    ● If we had generated the models using the A.4.II data (i.e. average annual
    temperature of New York City) instead of the 5-year moving average over
    22 cities, how would the prediction results 2010-2015 have changed?

    Since we'd no longer use moving average and rely on the temperature of one city (instead of various ones),
    the results of our models would be less resistant to stochastic variation and noise. The resulting models would 
    perform worse on new data.


[insert partE_figure.png]

PART E:
    ● Does the result match our claim (i.e., temperature variation is getting
    larger over these years)?

    Our results contradicts the claim, as the slope of the regression line is negative. 
    Which means that the standard deviation of the temperatures are decreasing over time,
    so temperature variation is going down.


    ● Can you think of ways to improve our analysis?

    We can increase the number of cities that we're using to give a more 
    representive picture of the national trend. We can increase the size 
    of the moving average window to smooth out and decrease more noise. 

