
A.5 Write up. 

    1. What were your results from compare_cow_transport_algorithms? Which
    algorithm runs faster? Why?

        The greedy algorithm ran seventeen thousand times faster than the brute force approach ( 1.71661376953125e-05 seconds as opposed to 0.2988619804382324 seconds). 

    2. Does the greedy algorithm return the optimal solution? Why/why not?

        The greedy algorithm took 6 trips whilst the brute force approach took 5 trips. 
        The greedy algorithm chooses to take the heaviest cow first, maximizing a local maximum, and not being concerned with
        the optimal cow transfer strategy. 

    3. Does the brute force algorithm return the optimal solution? Why/why not?

        The brute force solution returned the optimal solution of 5 trips. We know it's the most optimal solution as we went through every partition of cow orderings.
        This brute force approach was computationally feasible due to low amount of cows. If we were to increase the number of cows to be tranferred the time complexity of the brute force approach will become exponential. 


B.2 Write up.
    1. Explain why it would be difficult to use a brute force algorithm to solve this problem if there
    were 30 different egg weights. You do not need to implement a brute force algorithm in order to
    answer this.

        The time complexity of a brute force solution would be exponential. For a small amount of egg weights 
        the brute force algorithm can be computationally feasible but as the amount of weights increases, brute
        force quickly becomes computationally intractable.


    2. If you were to implement a greedy algorithm for finding the minimum number of eggs
    needed, what would the objective function be? What would the constraints be? What strategy
    would your greedy algorithm follow to pick which coins to take? You do not need to implement a
    greedy algorithm in order to answer this.

        The approach of my greedy algorithm would be to choose the heaviest eggs first, the thought
        process being that optimizing the minimum number of eggs carried can be accomplished by 
        prioritizing the heaviest eggs. The objective function would be maximizing egg weight on every choice.
        The contstraint would be the total egg weight must equal the target weight, and any choice that causes the 
        total weight to exceed the target weight is discarded.
        

    3. Will a greedy algorithm always return the optimal solution to this problem? Explain why it is
    optimal or give an example of when it will not return the optimal solution. Again, you do not need
    to implement a greedy algorithm in order to answer this

        The greedy algorithm would not guarentee the optimal solution, because we are optimizing for egg weight 
        at every choice we will only be able to opimize the local minimum. Without looking at every choice there
        is no guarentee that the optimal solution would be found. 

        An example of the greedy approach failing to find the optimal solution is below:

        target = 8
        weights = [5,1,1,1,4,4]
        greedy approach = 5 + 1 + 1 + 1 (4 eggs)
        brutefroce appraoch = 4 + 4 (2 eggs)
